---
layout: post
title: Onion bagel at Two Men Bagel House in Singapore
category: Singapore
feature_image: "/assets/img/bagels/2019-04-28-sg_twomen_1.jpg"
tags: bagel singapore
---

Since moving to Singapore, I've been on the hunt for good bagels. Based on recommendations from a couple of friends, I tried out Two Men Bagel House. They offer hand-rolled "NY style" bagels that are boiled in honey water before going into the oven. I got to Two Men Bagel House at about 12:30 PM on a Sunday. The queue was quite long. There must have been 20 people in front of me when I joined the line. Here was their list of bagels by the time I got to the front of the queue.

{% include figure.html image="/assets/img/bagels/2019-04-28-sg_twomen_2.jpg" %}

I had wanted to try an "all sorts" bagel because I'm assuming it's the equivalent of an "everything" bagel, but alas it was not in the cards. I settled on an onion bagel and silently prayed that the two people in front of me wouldn't order the last few. I actually ended up with either the last or second last onion bagel of the day. I had read Google reviews that this place regularly sells out their bagels by 2 PM, and I can now confirm this, so get here early!

{% include figure.html image="/assets/img/bagels/2019-04-28-sg_twomen_3.jpg" %}

I ordered cream cheese for my onion bagel, which cost a total of 4 SGD. They spread a very generous amount of cream cheese on it. The bagel itself tasted quite plain. I didn't taste any onion flavouring at all and there wasn't any visible seasoning on the bagel. If it wasn't for the fact that I knew their plain bagel was sold out (see first photo), I would have thought it was a plain bagel. Despite this, the bagel had a sweetness to it, so I guess that's due to the honey water. The outside was quite crisp, while the inside was rather chewy. I'd rate this bagel a 3 out of 5. I think most people go for the bagel sandwiches, rather than just the bagels themselves. For example, you can get a classic bagel with lox, cream cheese, capers, and dill, or a bagel with smoked brisket, emmental, and mustard. They had a lot of sandwich options. The sandwiches are a bit pricey though, ranging from 12-14 SGD. 
