---
layout: post
title: All sorts bagel at Two Men Bagel House in Singapore
category: Singapore
feature_image: "/assets/img/bagels/2019-04-28-sg_twomen_1.jpg"
tags: bagel singapore
---

This post is about the last and best bagel I ate in Singapore before moving back to Canada. 

I have come to realize that most non North Americans don't appreciate the bread-making art that goes into creating a quality bagel because they're always asking me what should go inside a bagel (e.g. "Would you put avocado on a bagel?") as though the bagel itself is not worthy of eating on its own. (And I'm not going to lie about feeling totally bewildered and a little offended when this happens.) This is all to preface that a lot of people confuse bagels and sandwiches made with bagels. One time I was on a Tinder date and this person asked me, "What do you like most - the inside of a bagel or the outside?" I had no idea what he was asking me at first and then it dawned on me that he thought bagels were sandwiches and he was asking if I cared more about the fillings or the bread. We obviously did not reconnect for a second date. I'd like to note that I have eaten all the bagel sandwiches, except for the ones with beef, from the Two Men Bagel House Holland Village outlet and I'm debating on whether to write a post about them since I just feel like they're not totally within the scope of this blog. *Update: I finally did write a post about the sandwiches and you can find it [here.](https://angela-tam.github.io/bagels/2021-06-05-sg_twomen/)*

Anyway, back to the best bagel I ate in Singapore. I ordered an "all sorts" bagel with jalapeno cream cheese from Two Men Bagel House, pictured below.

{% include figure.html image="/assets/img/bagels/2020-06-21_sg_twomen1.jpg" %}

So this bagel was very well seasoned (on the top half at least). From the traditional seasonings, we had white sesame seeds, onion flakes, and garlic flakes. Two Men Bagel House also added sunflower seeds and black sesame seeds, which added an interesting twist. There was also a white flat seed that I couldn't identify (close-up below). If anyone knows what it is, please let me know and I'll update this post accordingly! *Update: My friend Ashley thinks it's rolled oats, while my friend Pat thinks it's puffed barley.*

{% include figure.html image="/assets/img/bagels/2020-06-21_sg_twomen2.jpg" %}

This bagel was quite savoury and pretty chewy. The cream cheese might have been a bit overpowering because it was also very savoury, but it was really good. The cream cheese might have been the best part actually. The texture was pretty smooth and it was flavourful and had a small spicy kick to it.

I'm going to give this bagel a 4 out of 5. I definitely wish I ate more of these while I was living in Singapore.

I'd like to give a special shout out to Valeria Kebets for suggesting we stop by Two Men Bagel House on our first day out of circuit breaker. Thank you for indulging my bagel obsession. This blog post would not have happened without you.
