---
title: Shared and unique brain network features predict cognition, personality and mental health in childhood
category: Publications
feature_image: "/assets/img/chen_tam_matrices.png"
tags: fMRI phenotypes prediction development
---

The manner through which individual differences in brain network organization track population-level behavioral variability is a fundamental question in systems neuroscience. Recent work suggests that resting-state and task-state functional connectivity can predict specific traits at the individual level. However, the focus of most studies on single behavioral traits has come at the expense of capturing broader relationships across behaviors. Here, we utilized a large-scale dataset of 1858 typically developing children to estimate whole-brain functional network organization that is predictive of individual differences in cognition, impulsivity-related personality, and mental health during rest and task states. Predictive network features were distinct across the broad behavioral domains: cognition, personality and mental health. On the other hand, traits within each behavioral domain were predicted by highly similar network features. This is surprising given decades of research emphasizing that distinct brain networks support different mental processes. Although tasks are known to modulate the functional connectome, we found that predictive network features were similar between resting and task states. Overall, our findings reveal shared brain network features that account for individual variation within broad domains of behavior in childhood, yet are unique to different behavioral domains. 

This study has been under review since 2020 and is currently available as a preprint on [bioRxiv](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/biorxiv/early/2020/06/24/2020.06.24.168724.full.pdf).

Reference: Jianzhong Chen, Angela Tam, Valeria Kebets, Csaba Orban, Leon Qi Rong Ooi, Scott Marek, Nico Dosenbach, Simon Eickhoff, Danilo Bzdok, Avram J Holmes, B.T. Thomas Yeo, "Shared and unique brain network features predict cognition, personality and mental health in childhood", bioRxiv, 2020.
